# Weekly Blogs

## Week 1

The first week of class have helped me learn quite a bit about both the things I am familiar with and the things I am not. Just sitting in lecture, hearing terms like Internet Protocol and HTML made me realize that there is much to learn, and I am excited to do exactly that.
	The article that stuck out the most to me this week was “How to Build a Low-tech Internet” from Low-Tech Magazine. The idea of essentially simplifying internet solutions through low-tech systems is intriguing to me. This article talked about how long distance wifi could be a viable way to implement internet solutions particularly in rural areas. These ideas would be able to provide an internet connection to people in these rural areas using resources that are much more readily available than those needed for high tech solutions. The downsides that were detailed in this excerpt talked about the variability in bandwidth per user that would occur with these lower-tech solutions based on the bandwidth of the nodes and the number of users (How to Build a Low-tech Internet). I found it interesting the parallels drawn between the data mules of the past, and those that are relevant today. The mules of the past would physically transfer messages and information from place to place. In the context of this article, these “data mules” took the form of buses that would come through towns without extending internet connections. The information uploaded to the town server would be stored until the bus came through to receive the data and transport it out to wherever its final destination was. To me, this demonstrates that no matter how advanced our means of transferring data seem to get, in some ways, the tried and true methods will always remain a relevant and viable avenue. 
	In reading the Gillespie article, it became clear to me that I do not understand the vast majority of what goes into what we refer to as the Internet. This entity is profound, and this article discussed different things (I am not entirely sure of the correct way to refer to them) in relation to the idea of the end-to-end principle. A good amount of this article went over my head, but from what I can understand, this principle has long been a sort of standard, and it allows for data to be transferred quickly and without much, if any, change until it reaches its destination (Tarleton Gillespie). This article helped me to better understand the infrastructure of the systems that transport data.
	Reflecting on the articles this week, I learned that academic papers and articles pertaining to the topics in this class will be difficult to comprehend, as they refer to a space with which I am not particularly familiar. I will need to continue to focus to try and understand the material that is being presented, but look forward to learning from this experience. I am excited to continue to learn about the thing that runs the majority of my life, the Internet. 
  
### Bibliography

Gillespie, T. (2006) Engineering a Principle: 'End-to-End' in the Design of the Internet. 
	Social Studies of Science, Vol. 36, No. 3. Sage Publications
	
How to Build a Low-tech Internet, Low-Tech Magazine


## Week 3

I have never written or coded anything in HTML before this assignment. The task was intriguing to me, but I had virtually  no idea how to even start. I began by studying the examples you have us for the picture and videos. This helped me at least start to understand what is even possible to do with HTML. I then brainstormed some ideas to determine how I wanted to portray myself to the class, and what medium I wanted to use to accomplish this. I decided that pictures and videos would convey the information I wanted to the class in the most efficient way possible. I am from north Idaho, and most people do not have any idea what this place actually looks like. I wasted to face the class a look at how I grew up, and what my life has looked like up to this point.
	I began by looking through the past six to seven years of pictures on my phone and computer to determine what images and videos would best represent my experiences in life. I decided that I wanted to show images that I felt would give an accurate depiction of where I am from, Idaho. When people think of Idaho, they think of farms, wide open fields, and potatoes. I wanted to show people that it is so much more than that,  so the media I chose represents this idea. Shown are pictures of landscape, as well as sports and friend experiences from high school. My intent is for people to appreciate my hometown and understand a little bit about where I’m from.
	From Idaho, football offered me the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. I left my small city in Idaho for the bustling city of Seattle. This is why the next portion of my project focuses on this season of my life. I played football there, and was blessed to be able to have many amazing experiences in this city. Some of my favorite moments were captured on camera. These are meant to show yet another part of the journey that is my life, because all these experiences are what led me to where I am today.
	Learning how to code using HTML, JS, and some CSS has been quite the eye opening experience throughout the course of this project. I had zero idea how to code in any of the ideas that I wanted to do. This made it quite difficult to evcen find a place to start. So I started by taking the images that I wanted to used and figuring out how to insert them into a web page. From here, I learned how to create a slideshow using the pictures. Transitions were soon added as well as some audio to add to the experience. I then used a similar procedure with the videos and had a lot of fun with the project as I learned.
	Overall, I would say this was very challenging, but learning how to code and use my computer more to its extent has brought me much fulfillment. I look forward to learning more and producing better work in the future!

### HTML Self-Portrait

[Self-Portrait](final.html)

## Week 4

The readings and videos that stuck out to me the most this week made me start to think critically about my privacy as a user of mobile devices every day. Although I do not completely understand the directly negative effects on me, my privacy is something that I value, and I do not enjoy hearing that my life may not be as private as I believe it is. Shoshana Zuboff talked critically about behavioral surplus. She spoke of the idea that our devices that we used daily act as nodes in a massive grid of information that machine intelligence is able to get ahold of and use to predict everything about how you live. In my mind, this would mainly just be used to target people for advertisements and programs that this machine intelligence has calculated you would be interested in. Like I said earlier, this in and of itself does not impose a large threat in my mind, but the thought of the sheer lack of privacy we truly have is bone chilling. And who knows what the future may hold; this type of data may be used with much more malicious intent in the future as it pertains to our government or war. The article about your apps knowing your whereabouts was also extremely intriguing to me. I knew that by turning on my location services, I was allowing my phone, and the company that runs it, to track my location at any given time. What I did not understand was that this data isn’t just stored at some facility only to be used at random times to predict your next appointment. It is sold off to large corporations. My daily routine might very well be known by massive businesses whose sole job it is to target me and determine what I am going to do next, so that they can make a quick buck. This idea that certain applications are putting our privacy at risk is one that I have thought about before. Snapchat is able to tell you where your friends are at any given time if they have their location shared. Not only is this strange to me, but I feel that it could be incredibly dangerous if you do not know exactly who is able to see this information. If someone were to know your current location, or your schedule for the day, it would make a robbery or other threatening act incredibly easy. FaceApp is yet another example of how phone apps are ridding us of any and all privacy. This app is free to download in the app store, and will take a picture of your face and predict what you will look like tens of years in the future. Sounds fun. But recent articles have surfaced warning that this Russian based app may be an attempt to gather information about not just you, but our country. This app does not just “take a picture” but scans your face. There is now a database of facial scans of millions of people, and who knows what this could be used for. The world we are living in is one where privacy is at an all time low, and conscious decisions must be made to protect one’s identity from those with mal intent.

### Bibliography

Forum Privatheit 2018: Shoshana Zuboff keynote speech on surveillance capitalism

Jennifer Valentino-Devries, Natasha Singer, Michael h. Keller and Aaron Krolik. 2018. Your Apps Know Where You Were Last 	Night, and They’re Not Keeping It Secret. New York Times.

## Week 5

The idea of crowd work really stuck out to me this week. The article talking about common jobs getting taskified was a forgeign idea to me. I had never heard of this term, or the idea itself at all. Essentially, tasks that people in America would usually be hired to complete for a company can essentially be doled out to a group of people that use their computers to each complete a very small portion of the total task at hand. The example that was given in the article was a group of people in another country that did exactly this. One man started completing small tasks via his computer and saw the possibility for growth, so he got a group of people together that were interested in participating and he began to dole out even smaller tasks to them for them to make money, while he charged them a percentage of whatever they made. This article argued that this is what up to 30 percent of jobs in the United States will look like in the future. Reading this piece really got me thinking about the future of the economy, and the job structure in the U.S. Could people in other countries begin stealing jobs in this way? It is unlikely, but I believe what is very likely is that the current job landscape will not look like it does now in another fifteen to twenty years. The internet provides too much flexibility and ability to not become more of a focal point of the way people make money and the way tasks are pawned off onto other people for a profit. 
The other interesting reading to me this week was the video on “E-Waste Hell.” I had not thought about where waste from computers and televisions ends up going. Apparently Ghana,  in Africa, is home to one of the largest e-waste sites on the planet. This is where old electronics go to die, but the issues surrounding this are huge. People living by this dump make a living off of scrounging up plastic covered wires and other electrical components containing precious metals such as copper. They will then burn what they find in hopes of melting off the plastic so they have a usable metal left. The issue lies with the fact that burning plastic like this produces extremely toxic smoke and fumes and releases them into the air. The children that are exposed to this are not growing correctly. Everything the smoke touches becomes toxic, and the fumes are known to cause all sorts of cancer and disease. This illegal shipping of waste ends up in places like this and virtually destroys the communities around it. This is a very serious issue that needs to be brought into the public spotlight in order to be resolved.
The videos and readings this week were a nice switch up to the usual subject matter. They were easier to understand and focused on a wider range of topics, from physical issues caused by tech waste, to the implications tech may have on the future of jobs in America. 

### Bibliography

Gray, M. (2016) Your Job is About to Get Taskified Los Angeles Times

SBS Dateline, E-waste https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dd_ZttK3PuM
